the future of advertising

One of the biggest reasons people buy so much, and are so discontent with their
lives, is advertising. Advertising creates false_needs — all of a sudden we
need an iPhone or a new car or a_diamond_ring, just because an advertiser put
the need in our heads.

What is advertising? It’s a company (or political candidate, etc.) paying a
publishing platform (TV, newspaper, website, billboard, etc.) to get its
message/brand in front of people. Companies are paying for our attention, and
trying to get us to buy what they’re selling. And the publisher makes money by
selling the attention of its readers/watchers/users.

Of course, for us, the users … it sucks. Ads make the watching experience much
worse. Ads make the reading experience much worse (imagine reading this article
with 10 ads surrounding it).

Ads make our lives worse.

Isn’t that amazing? Companies build entire businesses around *actively making
our lives worse*. And they do it because it works. Because we buy what they’re
selling, so advertisers make more money through this model, and publishers also
win.

But we lose.

Many people, of course, would rather not have ads if given the choice. I prefer
to watch a TV show on iTunes (where I might pay a dollar or two for the show)
rather than pay for cable TV where I might get many more shows for the same
dollar or two, but also have to put up with advertising. Honestly, I don’t need
that many shows, and I’m not willing to pay less in order to make my life
worse.

Lots of people will put up with ads to get content for free. But it’s not free,
because:

1. Your life is worse for having to watch the ads.

2. You are paying for the ads, and thus the content, by buying more. If you
weren’t, advertising wouldn’t exist.

3. The time you spend watching ads is worth something.

This is becoming more important than ever because of the amount of time our
lives are spent online and in front of screens, and thus potentially in front
of ads. There are two directions I see advertising going in the future:

1. **All pervasiveness**. This is the direction it seems to be going. We spend so
much time on things like Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, and other websites, and
they’re all covered in invasive advertising. And with iPhones and Google Glass,
that’s expanding to fill almost every moment of our waking lives. Advertising
will be everywhere, tailored specifically to you now that advertisers and
publishers have so much data about who you are.

However, I submit that there will be more and more services in the coming years
that help us to block out ads. Obviously in the browser there are ad-blocking
plugins/extensions, and people use things like Tivo to skip ads on television.
We can pay to have no ads on some services. This is a worthwhile service, to
pay to make your life less crappy, though of course not everyone will be able
to afford this kind of service. So some will pay to have zero ads, and others
will not afford it and have ads everywhere, all the time. The difference
between these two kinds of lives will be huge.

2. **Choose no ads**. Some smart publishers will choose to have no ads. I have no
ads here on mnmlist, nor on Zen_Habits. How do I support myself, if not with
ads? By selling my own services. This obviously is like advertising, but I
think it’s better. I don’t have ads ruining your experience, and the only thing
I sell is what I already have for free on my site (help for improving your
life). And because you already know me and come to my site for this, you’re
more likely to trust me than some random advertiser. If I violate that trust,
you will stop going to my site. I have a strong incentive to keep your trust by
being trustworthy.

I’m just one publisher on the Internet, but there are others. We are the
exceptions, but I think we’re important exceptions. Readers/users/viewers can
choose publishers who don’t have advertising, and avoid/block those who do. Opt
out. Be conscious about who you go to, who you trust. If enough people do this,
*having no ads will become a competitive advantage*. That will then encourage
others to do the same, and then we will be able to choose a life without crappy
ads, without having to pay extra.

Which future happens is up to you. You can opt to not read/watch/use sites and
services with ads (and if you’re a publisher, you can create an ad-free
business model), or you can put up with crappy ads and let the all-pervasiveness win.
