letting go of fake needs

Our lives are filled with things we need to do. Until we look a little more
closely at those needs.

Think about what needs you might have: the need to check your email every 15
minutes, or empty your inbox, or read all your blogs, or keep something
perfectly neat, or dress to work in the latest fashions. The need to constantly
badger your kids about things, or control your co-workers, or meet with
everyone who wants a meeting, or be wealthier and wealthier, or own a nice car.

Where do these types of needs come from? They’re completely made up.

Sometimes the needs are created by society: the industry you’re in requires you
to work until 9 p.m. or dress in impeccable suits. Your neighborhood has
certain standards and if you don’t have an impeccable lawn and two BMWs in the
driveway, you’ll be judged. If you don’t have the latest iPhone, you won’t have
your geek cred or status symbol, and you’ll be jealous of those who do.

Sometimes the needs are made up by ourselves: we feel the urge to check our
emails or RSS feeds or news websites or text messages or Twitter accounts
constantly, even though there is no negative societal or work consequences if
we don’t keep up with them. We want a perfectly made up bed even if no one else
cares. We want to create a list of goals in life or for the year and achieve
every one of them, even if nothing bad will happen if we don’t achieve most of
them.

Either of these types of made-up needs can be eliminated. All it takes is the
willingness to let go.

Examine one of your made-up needs, and ask yourself why it’s such an important
need. Ask what would happen if you dropped them. What good would it do? Would
you have more free time and more space to concentrate and create, or less
stress and fewer things to check off each day? What bad things would happen —
or might happen? And how likely is it that these things would happen? And how
could you counter-act them?

These needs are created by fears, and the more honest we are about these fears,
the better. Face the fears, and give yourself a little trial period — allow
yourself to let go of the need, but just for an hour, or a day. Just for a
week. If nothing bad happens, extend the trial, and slowly in this manner
you’ll find that the need wasn’t a need at all.

It can feel good to let go, and by letting go, you are freeing yourself.
