paring ideas

As minimalists, we often talk about paring down possessions, and sometimes
paring down what we do. But what about what we think?

Is there any use in paring down thinking? I’ve found myself doing this over
time, in many areas.

My ideas about exercise have been simplified over the years. I used to worry
about the ideal mileage, percentage of increase in mileage, intervals, reps and
sets, weights and progression, lifts, workouts, programs … it was very
complicated. But as I’ve learned more about fitness, I’ve dropped most of those
ideas. I now know that none of that matters much, as I’ve let go of specific
fitness goals. Now I just try to move on most days, and have fun doing it. I’ve
dropped ideas about schedules, about programs, about loads and goals. I’m left
with the simplest of ideas.

Same applies to diet. I used to worry about not eating grains, or soy, or
processed foods, or fruits, or chemicals. Should I eat quinoa or steel-cut oats
or amaranth or chia seeds or bulgur wheat or buckwheat? I used to count
calories. Now I just try to eat real plant foods most of the time, and am
mindful of my eating. It’s simpler this way.

About writing: I worried about structure and voice and style and terseness and
grammar and schedules and tools and reading the best authors and the snowflake
method and editing and much more. Now I just write when I’m inspired, and I let
it flow.

About work: I worried about productivity and goals and action items and
meetings and paperwork and the Pareto principle and the perfect desk and the
perfect computer setup. Now I use simple tools, and do what I’m excited about.
The same is true of anything I’ve done. About finances, I just spend less than
I earn, and have my bills paid automatically. About my site, I just write and
publish and forget about comments and ads and stats and social networking.

About my social life, I just meet with a friend and try to be present. I could
go on all day, but you get the point.

When we start out with something, we usually will try everything. But as we
learn, we can pare down ideas that we find out don’t matter. We’re left with
the essentials.
