minimalist FAQs

Some frequently asked questions (FAQs) about minimalism and living the
minimalist life, for those new to the concept.

Q: Why be a minimalist?

A: It’s a way to escape the excesses of the world around us — the excesses of
consumerism, material possessions, clutter, having too much to do, too much
debt, too many distractions, too much noise. But too little meaning. Minimalism
is a way of eschewing the non-essential in order to focus on what’s truly
important, what gives our lives meaning, what gives us joy and value.

Q: Isn’t minimalism boring or too sparse, with nothing in your life?

A: This is a misconception about minimalism — that it’s necessarily monk-like,
empty, boring, sterile. Not at all. Well, it can be, if you go in that
direction, but I don’t advocate that flavor of minimalism. Instead, we are
clearing away all but the most essential things — to make room for that which
gives us the most joy. Clear away the distractions so we can create something
incredible. Clear away all the obligations so we can spend time with loved
ones. Clear away the noise so we can concentrate on inner peace, on
spirituality (if we wish), on our thinking. As a result, there is more
happiness, peace, and joy, because we’ve made room for these things.

Q: What is minimalist living?

A: It’s simply getting rid of things you do not use or need, leaving an
uncluttered, simple environment and an uncluttered, simple life. It’s living
without an obsession with material things or an obsession with doing everything
and doing too much. It’s using simple tools, having a simple wardrobe, carrying
little and living lightly.

Q: What are the benefits of minimalism?

A: There are many. It’s lower in stress. It’s less expensive and less debt.
It’s less cleaning and maintaining. It’s more enjoyable. There’s more room for
creating, for loved ones, for peace, for doing the things that give you joy.
There’s more time for getting healthy. It’s more sustainable. It’s easier to
organize. These are only the start.

Q: What does the schedule of a minimalist look like?

A: There’s no single answer to this question, but a minimalist would probably
focus on doing less, on having a less cluttered schedule, but what’s on his or
her schedule would be important. A minimalist might not actually keep a
schedule or calendar, at one extreme, if he didn’t have much to do each day —
he might instead live and work moment-by-moment, or just decide each morning to
focus on one or two important things.

A minimalist would also save a lot of time because of having less clutter and
fewer possessions. That means less time cleaning and maintaining, and less time
searching for things. A minimalist who clears away distractions and single-
tasks would also waste less time with those distractions and in switching back
and forth between tasks (multi-tasking).

In general, all this results in more time for relaxing, for hobbies, for
creating, for doing fun things.

Q: What rules do I need to follow to become minimalist?

A: There are no set rules. There’s no one way. What I suggest for living
minimally isn’t what someone else would recommend, nor is it how you would live
your minimalist life. In general, however, you want to live simply without too
many unnecessary possessions, distractions, clutter, or waste. You want to live
frugally, debt-free, sustainably, naturally.

Q: Do you need to be vegan or vegetarian to be minimalist?

A: No. While I believe the vegan/vegetarian lifestyle is consistent with
minimalism, you can eat simply as an omnivore as well. Again, there’s no one
way. A minimalist would try to eat naturally, without too much processing, and
not eat too much food (such as the ridiculous portions at most restaurants
these days).

Q: I believe in simplifying, but why should I be so frugal — what wrong with a
few REALLY nice things?

A: Frugality is simply a way of not spending on unnecessary things — sticking
to the essentials. Is there anything wrong with a few really nice things? Not
necessarily. If you need to buy something, it’s usually better to go for
quality, rather than cheap, because it’s better made and will last longer.
Minimalism is about quality over quantity.

However … it’s always good to examine whether it’s good to have an attachment
to material things. This isn’t something I’ve completely succeeded with — I
love my Mac, for example — but it’s something I’ve been working on. I am much
less attached to possessions than I was just a few years ago, and I recommend
that everyone examine their relationship with physical things, with products,
and see if it’s really what they want.

Q: What about finding minimalism in America — where you need to have a car and
a job?

A: This whole site is about finding minimalism within the American culture and
society — as well as other industrialized nations — not on some remote desert
island. The complexities and social expectations of the United States (and
other industrialized countries) is exactly why minimalism is needed. All the
advice I give on this site (and Zen_Habits) is aimed at people in these modern
societies.

I’ve lived a minimalist life on Guam, and now in San Francisco. It’s a matter
of choices.

Do you need to be as minimalist as me, or someone living in the wilderness? Not
at all. It’s not about that. It’s about finding simplicity and finding what’s
important to you, and making choices, rather than adopting the consumerist
mindset that most people have.

Q: Aren’t you being contradictory by claiming to be a minimalist and owning a
Mac, or a house, or having six kids?

A: Again, there’s no one way. Everyone must find his own path, and mine is
different than what someone else would consider minimalist. Also, I have never
claimed to be perfect – I’m striving for minimalism, but I always have room for
improvement. I have things that are inconsistent with minimalism, or at least
by the definition of others. I’m working on it.

I should say a word or two about having six kids and minimalism. Having six
children is inconsistent with my message of simplifying, frugality, downsizing,
being green.

I don’t have a defense – but I do have an explanation for the inconsistency. I
had my kids before (and during) my change in philosophy. In fact, my philosophy
is evolving even now, so I can’t claim to have believed in the things I believe
in now, for a very long time. Many things I believe in are only recent
developments.

As an example – only recently, I made the decision to transition back into
veganism (I was vegan once, but have been lacto-ovo veggie for over a year).

But I own a pair of leather sandals – do I throw them out? Wouldn’t that be
wasteful? Is it better to be wasteful but consistent with my beliefs? It’s hard
to say.

However, I have decided it would be most unethical for me to throw out my
children, just because I now believe in downsizing. It was a tough decision,
but I’m sticking by it.

As a result of my simplifying, I am able to enjoy my time with my children, and
I have to admit, they are the best thing to happen to me. I don’t regret having
them one bit, even if they are inconsistent with my philosophy of downsizing.

On the good side, I believe that even with six kids — being vegan, buying less
stuff, being energy conscious, going car-less, walking more for transportation
– I actually use fewer resources than the average person in developed countries
(and far less than the average American) – this is according to online carbon
footprint calculators. It’s not a justification for having six kids, but just a
note that things aren’t as bad as they could be.

Q: Why don’t you have a comment button or comments on this site?

A: I purposely didn’t include comments on this site for a couple of reasons:
1. I already manage several other blogs, and get a ton of comments at Zen
Habits, and having to manage another blog’s comments is too much for me. I just
don’t have the time, and if I had to do it, I couldn’t do this blog.
2. I love dialog with readers — it’s what makes blogging such a joy — but
commenting isn’t the only way. I encourage you to reply to me about any of
these posts via Twitter or on your blog. The dialog then will be less local and
more widespread.
3. I like the idea of keeping things simple on a blog about minimalism.

Q: How is mnmlist.com different than Zen_Habits?

A: Well, Zen Habits is about simplicity, and mnmlist.com is about minimalism —
can’t you see the difference?

Seriously, though, there will be a different focus here than at Zen Habits,
which covers a wide range of topics besides simplicity, including productivity,
changing habits, health & fitness, family, finances, happiness, and yes,
simplicity.

This blog will focus pretty much exclusively on minimalism, a passion of mine.

Not all Zen Habits readers are incredibly interested in minimalism, so I’m
breaking off this blog for those who are.

If you have other questions that I should include here, please let_me_know_on
Twitter!
