moving to a new home

I have to admit, moving to San Francisco wasn’t as minimalist as I’d hoped. I
think we did pretty well overall, all considered, but there were definite non-
minimalist aspects of the move. But that’s OK — we’re all human, and we’re
learning as we go.

The plan: sell, donate, or give away almost everything we owned. We hoped to
keep a backpack of clothes each (to be carried on the plane), and a box of
personal stuff each that would be shipped to us once we had a home. Everything
else would be sold in a yardsale, given to family & friends who needed them, or
donated to charity. Then we’d start from scratch — buying used as much as
possible, and getting as little as possible.

That mostly happened according to plan. We did sell, give away and donate
practically everything we owned. There is an amazing amount of stuff in drawers
and closets that turns up when you’re actually emptying out your house — canned
goods, ziploc bags, tools, brooms, bathroom cleaners, things like that — even
when you’re a minimalist at heart. It turned out to be a lot of work emptying
out our home completely. So not as minimalist as I’d hoped, but again, no one’s
perfect.

Moving with a backpack each was nice. We didn’t have any luggage to check in on
our flight. In practice, just about all the bags were carried by me and my
oldest son, Justin, so we were loaded with three backpacks/duffel bags each.
That was OK, but definitely tiring when your trip includes a flight to Japan
with a 9-hour layover, a long flight to L.A., and another flight to San
Francisco, with ridiculous amounts of security checks at each stop.

We found a home within a week, which was faster than we’d dared to hope. That
wasn’t all that minimalist either — we were going all over the city (commuting
from Alameda each morning, where we were staying with my cousin) looking at
houses. Realtors don’t like to make appointments in advance it seems, so each
morning I’d have a list of places from Craigslist and I’d make calls, trying to
set up appointments. We walked around a bunch of different neighborhoods in the
first week, getting a feel for them. Our favorite was Cole Valley, by far, and
that’s where we finally settled.

The first night in our new place was minimalist as hell. We had a futon and an
air mattress, some pillows and blankets. We also bought bathroom and kitchen
supplies, and not much else. Our home was empty, and cold (I didn’t find the
heater until morning).

The first week in our new house, we ran all over town trying to get furniture
and other home necessities (dishes, rugs, etc.). A lot of it we got off
Craigslist, which is very cool, but it turns out to be hard to do when you
don’t have a car or truck. I ended up grouping the pick-ups of used furniture
into two-hour windows, and hiring a small mover to pick them up with me. One
day I rented a U-haul truck. Another day I picked up a rug, rolled it up,
carried it 10 blocks by foot, and then took the rug on the train. It wasn’t too
bad.

The disappointing thing is we ended up buying a fair amount of new stuff — a
couple beds (we got one used), mattresses, curtains, rugs, kitchen and bathroom
stuff. I dislike doing this, as it’s a huge waste of natural resources, but we
didn’t find used versions of these things that we liked. Perhaps our standards
were too high.

Today, we’re mostly settled in. We don’t have a TV, which I love, but
considering I don’t make all the decisions I’m not sure how long that will
last. We have computers and wireless Internet, food from farmer’s markets. We
don’t have a car and won’t get one, period. We don’t have bikes yet but will.

Our home is pretty minimalist, which is a great thing about starting from
scratch. We’ll see how long it lasts.
