quotes

Some of my favorite quotes on minimalism:

“Be Content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize
there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you.” – Lao Tzu

“Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there
is nothing left to take away.” – Antoine de Saint-Exupe

“Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler.” – Albert
Einstein

“Fear less, hope more; eat less, chew more; whine less, breathe more; talk
less, say more; love more, and all good things will be yours.” – Swedish
proverb

“Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say let your affairs be as one, two,
three and to a hundred or a thousand. We are happy in proportion to the things
we can do without.” – Henry David Thoreau

“Plurality should not be assumed without necessity.” – William of Ockham (also
known as Ockham’s Razor)

“It looks like you can write a minimalist piece without much bleeding. And you
can. But not a good one.” – David Foster Wallace

“The secret of happiness, you see, is not found in seeking more, but in
developing the capacity to enjoy less.” – Socrates

“Nature does not hurry, yet everything is accomplished.” – Lao Tzu

“Three Rules of Work: Out of clutter find simplicity; From discord find
harmony; In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.” – Albert Einstein

“A good traveller has no fixed plans, and is not intent on arriving.” –Lao Tzu

“The simplest things are often the truest.” – Richard Bach

“Great acts are made up of small deeds.” –Lao Tzu

“He who is contented is rich.” –Lao Tzu

“Less is more.” – Ludwig Mies van der Rohe

“One can furnish a room very luxuriously by taking out furniture rather than
putting it in.” – Francis Jourdain

“Have nothing in your houses that you do not know to be useful, or believe to
be beautiful.” – William Morris

“We ascribe beauty to that which is simple; which has no superfluous parts;
which exactly answers its end.” – Ralph Waldo Emerson

“When you are content to be simply yourself and don’t compare or compete,
everybody will respect you.” – Lao Tzu

“Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.” – Leonardo da Vinci

“… in all the things, the supreme excellence is simplicity.” – Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow

“Too many people spend money they haven’t earned, to buy things they don’t
want, to impress people they don’t like.” – Will Rogers

“If your mind isn’t clouded by unnecessary things, then this is the best season
of your life.” – Wu-Men

“Simplicity is the essence of happiness.” – Cedric Bledsoe

“Be wary of any enterprise that requires new clothes.” – Henry David Thoreau

“Simplicity is the final achievement. After one has played a vast quantity of
notes and more notes, it is simplicity that emerges as the crowning reward of
art.” – Frederic Chopin

“The ability to simplify means to eliminate the unnecessary so that the
necessary may speak.” – Hans Hofmann

“Eliminate physical clutter. More importantly, eliminate spiritual clutter.” –
D.H. Mondfleur

“Any intelligent fool can make things bigger, more complex, and more violent.
It takes a touch of genius – and a lot of courage – to move in the opposite
direction.” – E.F. Schumacker

“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.” – Confucius
“Simplicity, clarity, singleness: these are the attributes that give our lives
power and vividness and joy.” – Richard Halloway

“Our life is frittered away by detail… Simplify, simplify, simplify! …
Simplicity of life and elevation of purpose.” – Henry David Thoreau

“We don’t need to increase our goods nearly as much as we need to scale down
our wants. Not wanting something is as good as possessing it.” – Donald Horban

“People love chopping wood. In this activity one immediately sees results.” –
Albert Einstein
