society, reimagined

Sometimes I wonder if society could be vastly different, redesigned almost from
scratch.

It stems from my belief that somewhere along the line, we allowed ourselves to
be sidetracked from what’s important — people — and instead have put profits,
corporations, productivity, and consuming at the forefront of everything we do.

We’ve become workers focused on productivity, because we need to earn a living,
so that we can … buy things (including entertainment). Including a car, which
is needed to go to work and to shop. We need to send our kids to school, so we
don’t need to worry about them when we work, and so that they can grow up to be
good workers. We need to buy fast food and convenience food, because we’re too
busy or tired from work to cook.

We’ve gotten fat, tired, sick, deep in debt, disconnected from our kids and
other family members, divorced, separated from our neighbors. We’re polluting
and causing global warming, all in the name of money and work and profits and
buying. This seems broken, to me.

But what’s a better way of living? A society reimagined, built around people
and a love for our environment and living and working and playing together, a
love for being outside and playing and being active, a love for doing things
and spending time with people rather than for buying things and working to
support that buying habit.

What would such a society look like? I hesitate to put forth my vision, because
it shouldn’t come from one person but should be reimagined by everyone who will
live it. However, I’ll put forth a small sliver of such a vision, just to get
the conversation started.

**The car, junked**

I’d start by banishing the car. It’s supposed to give us freedom, but we’re
chained to it and its expensive payments, maintenance, repairs, fuel, parking,
pollution, and so on. I’d prefer the freedom to walk, bike, and take good mass
transit, and to play in the roads again. We’d reclaim the roads as public
spaces for the community, and redesign life so that most everything we need
(food, work, school, play, stores, restaurants, etc.) are within walking or
biking distance, and mass transit is available for everything else.

That means we’d need to stop commuting to work. I’d propose that many people
could work from home, either as entrepreneurs and small business people or
telecommute or collaborate online. Close to our homes, we’d also need marktets
for food and tools and whatnot, and people who make clothes and food and bikes
and all that kind of stuff, not to mention repair and maintain everything in
the community. We’d need builders and musicians and all of that too, but it
could be done much closer to home.

**Schools, erased**

I’d also banish the school, at least as we know it: institutions that force
learning, that homegenize children, that teach them to be robotic workers
instead of thinkers, creators, independent learners. This isn’t a criticism of
teachers (who I think are saints), but of the system itself. Kids are turned
off to learning because they’re forced to go to school for 6-8 hours a day, sit
at desks, not talk or play with their classmates except at designated times, do
work they’re not interested in, memorize things without thinking much … pretty
much what they’re expected to do for most of their adult lives, unless they’re
lucky enough to break out of this thinking.

What’s better? I unschool my kids, and I think this is a much more human
system, and better if your goal is to get the kids to actually learn, to enjoy
learning, to figure out how to do things themselves, to create and be self-motivated … pretty much what I hope my kids will do as adults. How do we do
this? We help them find things they’re interested in, and try not to force them
to do anything. They read books they find interesting, work on projects that
are fun to them, get excited about things, make things. Revolutionary, I know,
but not that hard once you break out of the schooling mindset. We’re still
learning how to unschool, as are our kids, but if it weren’t a learning
process, it wouldn’t be worthwhile.

So kids could be unschooled in my reimagined society, learning from their
parents or siblings or grandparents, or on their own, or from working members
in their neighborhood who are doing things they’re interested in. Or we could
have learning centers, where kids go if they’re interested in learning about
art or music or writing or computers or cooking or building or whatever — they
wouldn’t be forced to go here, but would be provided with the resources.

Unschools, provided by the community, supplanting the cost of running the old-fashioned style schools.

**Sharing vs. consumerism**

I’d get rid of supermarkets and huge agribusinesses and food flown and shipped
from thousands of miles away. Instead, we’d grow our own food, right in our
backyards, or in community gardens. We’d swap foods with neighbors — some of my
sweet potatoes for some of your quinoa. I think more people would become
vegetarian/vegan this way, but it wouldn’t be required — if you wanted to raise
your own animals and kill them, you could. This system would be hugely better
for the environment, and our health, and would reconnect us with our food and
nature. We’d eat whole, unprocessed foods, cooked tastily. It would take more
time, I’m sure, but slow food isn’t such a bad thing, and if done right, it
wouldn’t have to be too time consuming, especially if everyone pitched in.

I’d do away with the corporation, and put the cooperative in its place.

Corporations are so inhuman, so profit-driven, so horrible for employees and
the environment (in general, with exceptions). Cooperatives are owned by the
workers, and so obviously treat the workers with more humanity. They’re also
less likely to rape the earth or damage the community or customers. They’re
simply a way for people to work together democratically and cooperatively.

I’d change the concept of housing, somehow. Right now, it’s hugely wasteful,
with people buying gigantic homes with all kinds of space they don’t need,
needing all kinds of heating/cooling as a result, and forcing people to work
long hours to pay for it. Instead, we could have smaller homes, built with the
help of neighbors (think Amish barn-raising), so we’d need far fewer resources
to build them and far less debt to own them. We might even have community
homes, if people felt like it, though that wouldn’t be mandatory. This would
allow sharing_of_resources, and would reduce the cost of living for everyone
involved.

I’d have libraries_for_everything. Just as bike libraries are springing up, and
car sharing is becoming more common in cities, and other libraries like tool
libraries are coming into public consciousness, we could have libraries for any
kind of resources: computers, clothing, furniture, even houses. This would mean
things would be far cheaper to use, as we’d be sharing them, and it would mean
far less waste as well.

I’d have zero advertising, and close to zero consumerism. We’d discourage
people “shopping” and paying for entertainment and trying to buy more and more
just to impress others, and instead focus on experiences and sharing and doing
things together — reading and creating and going outside for hikes and cooking
together and gardening together and building together and fixing things
together or being alone … but not buying.

Work, living, and community needs could be reimagined too — perhaps we’d form
voluntary teams to take care of different things. For example, if parks or
streets needed to be cleaned, we could have teams to do that, and everyone
could volunteer a certain number of hours (not forced, but you’d probably be
embarrassed if you didn’t pull your share). Anything could be organized this
way, voluntarily and democratically: workplaces, teaching, cooking, care of
young children, whatever the community wanted. This would take closer-knit
communities, but I think that would be more possible without cars and with
people walking and biking, and doing things together such as community gardens
and building neighbors’ houses.

**A digital world**

I’d have free wireless Internet for the entire community, so that everyone
could collaborate and have access to information and education. Online sites
could be used to organize the community and put forth proposals and build
consensus. The wireless would be paid for by everyone, and could be done with
the money we save from food and not having to build infrastructure for cars and
so forth. We could also eliminate the need for a telephone system, and I’d also
get rid of cable TV systems, which would help pay for free wireless.

I’d eliminate paper, for the most part. It’s a waste of trees and takes up a
lot of space in offices and people’s houses, and then often becomes waste.

Books, magazines, newspapers, CDs, DVDs all become digital (as they are
already). Paperwork becomes digital, and faxes are killed two decades after
they should have been killed. We eliminate printers and save more money. All we
have are little notebooks and journals and sketchpads for those who like to
write and draw on paper.

**The results**

Think about this: with these changes, we’d have much smaller living expenses,
because housing would be affordable, we wouldn’t be paying for cars, food would
be cheaper, school would be free, other things would be cheap because we’d be
using libraries for everything. We’d not be consumers, but builders and
creators and growers. And so, with such small expenses, we would have to work
far less to earn a living.

Imagine that: lower expenses means working less, which means more free time to
… do anything you want. To spend time with friends, family, kids, neighbors. To
be alone. To create, to commune with nature, to be free. To do_interesting
things. All of that free time, far from being a drain on society, could be a
huge benefit, as people would be happier, have better family lives, would
create more interesting things, would be less likely to commit crimes, and so
on. I’m not saying this would create a utopia, but I think it would have a
positive effect. We’d, of course, be much better for the environment and much
better for our health, our sanity, our happiness.

**Back to reality**

OK, so by now you’re saying, “Yeah right, Leo. Keep dreaming.” And I
acknowledge this is a dream, but the conversation needs to be started
somewhere. On the note of practicality, we wouldn’t need to change the entire
world, or the entire country or culture. Just one community, and it could be a
small one — a college town such as Austin or Davis or Eugene, or a neighborhood
such as Nopa (in S.F.). This community could organize itself and reimagine
itself, and make one change at a time towards a more positive future.

This community, I think, would inspire others, and other communities might soon
follow, just as Bogota has inspired many other places with some of its
progressive policies. By showing it can be done, and sharing some of what they
learned, these early communities would pave the way for others to start down
this road.

It’s a road I’d love to walk down myself. But don’t let me tell you what to do:
reimagine the future yourself, and join the conversation.

—
See part two of this post: society, reimagined: how to make it reality
