stop making it complicated

Now that I’ve learned to look at things with the lens of simplicity, I can see
others making mistakes I’ve made in the past.

I want to gently say to them — and to my past self — “Stop making things so
complicated!”

I’m not going to criticize how other people do things in this post, but rather
talk about things I did wrong in the past.

The biggest problem came when starting a new endeavor — starting running,
trying to get organized or productive, starting blogging, getting out of debt,
even the act of simplifying.

I’d always make things so complicated — looking back on it, I either want to
cringe or laugh. And yet, I know that life is a learning process, and those
early mistakes helped me to get to where I am. Even now, I make tons of
mistakes, learning as I go.

Example 1: I wanted to be more productive, so I learned GTD (Getting Things
Done, an excellent book by David Allen). I bought tools that other GTDers
recommended, set up a series of lists, tried out a couple dozen different
software (and paper) approaches to lists. Every GTDer knows this problem. GTD,
and many other productivity systems, can end up being complicated.

Today, my advice to my former self is: stop making it complicated.

Productivity, such as I care about it today, is simple. You pick the most
important thing you want to do today, clear distractions, and start on it. You
don’t even need a list, though having a list for remembering what else needs to
be done later is fine. Have one list, but don’t fiddle with it. Just pick one
thing, and start working.

Example 2: When I wanted to get out of debt, I tried various financial
software, I made spreadsheets, I made schedules for payments, I tracked
everything, and so on. It was complicated, believe me.

Now I know it’s simple. First, stop the unnecessary spending (I know, easier
said than done, but once you learn to recognize it and stop your impulse urges,
it’s not complicated). Second, put everything you can to one debt at a time
(first creating an emergency fund of at least $500), pay off that one debt,
then pay off the next.

Example 3: When I started blogging in January 2007, I looked at dozens of
different blogging platforms/software, themes, ad platforms, ebooks, articles
on every possible blogging topic. This is natural, as I was just learning the
field.

But today, I know it’s simple: you pick a topic, and write. Then hit publish.

Share your stuff via Twitter or Facebook if you like, but don’t worry so much
about that. Just write interesting and/or useful stuff, and people will find
you eventually. Just write, and publish.

When you start something new, sure, there’s a learning process. But also
realize that while the learning is good, the doing doesn’t have to be
complicated at all. Find the simplest way to do things, and just start doing
it. You’ll learn by doing.
