the minimalism of veganism

This post will strike a nerve with some readers, as many minimalists or
aspiring minimalists are die-hard carnivores. They love their meat and don’t
want to hear anything against it.

Well, hear me out, please. If you could read to the end of the post before
disagreeing, blasting me, or dismissing me, I’d be grateful.

In this post I’ll tell you (briefly) why I chose veganism and how it is the
diet I believe is most in line with minimalism.

**Minimal eating**

Veganism, simply defined, is abstaining from animal products, from meat and
fish and poultry to dairy and eggs and other such products. I also try for
whole foods that are minimally processed, which means I mostly eat veggies,
fruits, nuts, seeds, beans, some whole grains.

This is a limited, minimal diet, and yet it can be incredibly satisfying and
maximally flavorful. It’s also very healthy, very light, and low on the budget
(if you compare it to eating whole foods carnivorously).

A small amount of ingredients. Light on the palate and stomach. Easy to
prepare, with a minimum of fuss.

**The most sustainable diet**

I won’t go into the figures here (they’re covered better elsewhere), but
raising animals for meat, eggs and dairy is incredibly wasteful. For every
pound of meat or dairy, many times that amount of plants must be used to feed
the animals for those products.

Animals also produce a huge amount of pollution and contribute_immensely_to
greenhouse_gases, not to mention the machinery and fuel that’s used to raise,
slaughter and transport them … and all the plants needed to feed them. They
contribute hugely to deforestation_and_other_environmental_problems as well.

Eating only plants cuts that waste to a minimal amount, and is so much better
for the environment. Minimalists who care about living lightly and sustainably
would do well to research_this and consider it.

**Minimal cruelty**

One of the main reasons for becoming a vegan is that we don’t believe animals
should be held captive, suffer, and be slaughtered for our pleasure.

There is absolutely no need for humans to consume animal products to live a
healthy life. Sure, we’ve eaten them for millions of years, but as millions and
millions of people have proven, you can eat a vegan diet and be healthy.

And so, the only reason to eat animal products is pleasure — you like the taste
and “can’t give it up”. Vegans don’t believe animals should suffer for our
pleasure, and becoming vegan means you’re opting out of a society that treats
animals with extreme cruelty and pretends it doesn’t happen.

Addendum 1: Obviously this applies to factory farming, but it’s also true of
free-range, grass-fed animals. Some vegans (myself included) don’t believe
animals are objects that should be used for our pleasure, kept captive and
killed, no matter how “humanely” we treat them while alive. This is akin to
slavery of a fellow thinking, feeling creature. Animals don’t exist for human
benefit — they exist for their own benefit.

Addendum 2: Another justification commonly made is that vegetarians kill
plants, and those are living things too. However, they don’t feel and think and
suffer in the same way that humans and animals do — they don’t have a central
nervous system or brain. It’s a fallacious argument — carnivores have no
problem with killing plants, and are only pointing this out to make vegans look
inconsistent. If you feel that killing plants is cruel, then I challenge you to
live consistently with that belief. Vegans are doing our best to live
consistently with ours.

**Living lightly, not always conveniently**

If your definition of minimalism involves always choosing the most convenient,
easiest options, then veganism might not be the most minimal choice. It can
sometimes be inconvenient, when eating at restaurants that aren’t vegan-riendly or at the homes of non-vegan friends or family.

That’s a reality, but in truth, it’s not that hard. I mostly cook my own food,
with a minimum of preparation, and so most days I have no problems whatsoever.

More and more restaurants are becoming vegan-friendly, and the ones that aren’t
can usually whip up a quick and simple vegetable dish on request. I usually
avoid McDonald’s and most fast food anyway. When I go to someone else’s house,
I usually bring a dish with me, and friends and family who know me best often
will cook a dish for me out of consideration.

So it’s not that hard. My suggestion, if you’re interested, is starting small:
try a couple vegan_dishes this week, a couple next week, and so_on. There’s no
need to drastically change overnight, but in time you’ll find that vegan dishes
are delicious and the vegan lifestyle is wonderfully minimalist.

Thanks for listening, my friends.
