undistracted reading

Reading happens to be one of my favorite things in the world. I know, I’m not
alone — a few others seem to enjoy it as well. But the reader these days faces
interesting challenges: there’s more to read than ever, in so many different
forms, coming at you every day, and a million distractions from the act of
reading (many of them in the form of other reading).

The types of reading seem to grow all the time: from traditional paper books,
newspapers and magazines to blog posts, online news articles, forums, Tweets,
Facebook updates, emails, email newsletters, and much more. Each of these types
of reading presents an ever-growing and often overwhelming reading list that we
must keep up with: an email inbox, an RSS reader with the latest blog posts,
various news websites, a long list of status updates and forum posts, and so
on.

Keeping up with these lists becomes near impossible, a full-time job. My
solution is to give up on keeping up — it’s a self-invented need, not a real
one — and to pare down as much as possible. So I pare my list of blogs to the
essential, I barely do email, I have only a few friends on Twitter and
Facebook. So I’m not the most up-to-date guy, and so I don’t make everyone
happy by being their online friend … life seems to go on.

Even with a pared-down reading list, reading can still be a challenge: how do
you read without distractions? It’s incredibly difficult, as each reading form
pulls us away from the others, and alerts and updates are coming in all the
time, not to mention other forms of communication like phones, IM, and (gasp)
real people trying to get our attention.

Here’s how I find undistracted reading:

1. Books. My favorite type of reading is the novel. I rarely read non-fiction
books, even though I’m a non-fiction author myself. And while the iPad and
Kindle each present lovely ways of reading books, they also each contain
various distractions. And so I still love the paper book, for its simplicity
and lack of other things to do while you’re reading it. Close the computer,
turn off the phones, find a quiet spot, and just read. Try to do it in large
chunks, like 30 minutes or an hour or more, and you can get lost in another
world. Simply beautiful.

2. Blog posts. I love to read blogs, though I keep up with fewer these days
than I did a few years ago. I’ve pared my reading list down and use Google
Reader to quickly get through the list each day. When I find a post I want to
read in full, without distractions, I open it in a new browser window — not a
browser tab, but a window, so no other tabs show — and use the Readability
bookmarklet or similar to focus only on the text. Then I read without switching
to anything else until I’m done.

Here on mnmlist, and there on Zen_Habits, I’ve already pared my posts down to
just the text. I’ve done the work for you, for undistracted reading. On other
blogs, you have to do some work — install the Readability bookmarklet, hit a
button when you want to read an article without distractions. It’s OK. A little
hard work never killed anyone, except my Uncle Murray but I think it was more
his complaining about hard work that did it.

3. Focused browsing. If you open a bunch of tabs, keep things focused by using
a little service I discovered called Instapaper (I don’t think anyone else
knows about this, so feel free to leave 5 cents on your way out for the tip).
Instapaper all your open tabs for reading later, then read one at a time when
you have some undistracted reading time.

4. Email, Twitter, Facebook. Basically, open these as little as possible. They
lead to distractions for other reading, for work, etc. Open them for 5 minutes,
do a quick scan, post an update or reply if necessary, then get out. Only open
one at a time, do them with focus, and close the tab. Give yourself some time
to do this on a regular basis — 5 minutes at the top of each hour, or at 9 a.m.
and 3 p.m., or whatever works for you.

5. News articles. I don’t read a lot of news sites. They tend to lead to lots
of distractions. But when I do, I open a few of the articles that look
interesting, scan them, and Instapaper the ones that I want to read later. Then
I’ll plow through Instapaper with some undistracted reading, when I have time.
