the minimalism of not knowing

These days, nearly everything we want to know is a few keystrokes away, almost
instantly gratifying our desire to know something.

What’s the weather like outside? Do a quick check of your weather app. Who the
heck is Gabriel Garcia Marquez? Ask Wikipedia. Who is the lead boy actor in Wes
Anderson’s Moonrise Kingdom? Search IMDB.com. Google, Reddit, Facebook,
Twitter, et al will tell you anything you want to know, right now.

Isn’t that incredible? Just 20 years ago, that was unthinkable. If you wanted
to know something, you might turn on the TV and hope to get lucky, or look in
your encyclopedias (if you had them) and hope to get lucky, or go to the
library and hope to get lucky. Most of the time, you had to settle on not
knowing.

One of the things I’ve noticed from turning_off_my_computer periodically
throughout the day (I work in 30-minute chunks), is that when the computer is
off, I often think of a question I want answered — and my first instinct is to
go to the computer and search. I’d know in like 4 seconds!

But then I pause, and examine that urge. Is it a true need, to know right now?
Can I not wait 30 minutes, or even a few hours, or a day? Of course I can. It’s
not a matter of life or death, or national security, or anything important
really.

And so I stop myself, and make a note to look it up later. Then I notice
something else interesting: not knowing is a strange phenomena to me, now. Not
knowing is something I am not familiar with. OK, sure, there are a gazillion
things I don’t know, every moment of my life, but when I want to know
something, I will usually know, really really quickly. Now I don’t know
something I want to know, for at least half an hour, sometimes more.

And then I realize: this is a strange freedom. Not knowing something means I am
walking around blind, without a direct path, and I must live with that, work
with that. It’s interesting. It’s a different way of living. How our ancestors
must have lived! (Or, you know, me in the early 90s.)

Not knowing isn’t bad. It’s just different. And really, I think there’s
something minimalist about it. Let’s let go of the need to know, every second
of the day, and let our minds wander around in the dark for abit.
